Advanced Java and Cutting-edge Applications

Dashboard  / My courses  /  Tianjin International Engineering Institute  /  Course List of Computer Science

/  Advanced Java and Cutting-edge Applications  /  Project  /  Project description

Project description

The Context

You work at a startup that develops software and computer applications. You decide to respond to a request for proposals (RFP)

from a large company, which we'll call BigComp. To respond to the RFP and try to win the contract, you must produce a prototype
that you will demonstrate to managers and department heads within the company, who will then select the best software. The
prototype you create must be as close as possible to the final application and must simulate the parts that require physical

deployment in the application's real-world environment. In particular, the graphical user interface must be particularly polished and
as close as possible to its final version. Similarly, the database structure must be almost identical to the final structure.

General Specifications

BigComp wishes to implement a comprehensive access control system to secure its headquarters, which consists of a large
property comprising several buildings, each with multiple floors, parking lots, etc. For security reasons, the control system must be
a native application and cannot be a web application. The company wants to secure all physical access points within its site:

site entry and exit, on foot or by vehicle
building entry and exit
access to doors leading to offices, meeting rooms, corridors, technical rooms, the data center, etc.

elevator and stairways access to different floors
access to underground parking

The company also wishes to use the same system to control access to resources available on site, primarily:

the use of printers
the use of beverage dispensers (free for employees)

To simplify the project description, the word "resource" will be used to refer to both gate-like resources (doors, gates) and other
resources (elevator button, printer, beverage dispensers). After studying the solutions available on the market, the company opted
for a badge-based access control system. An access badge is a physical or virtual (smartphone) identification device issued to an

authorized person (company employee, but also contractor, intern, visitor) to allow them access to secure areas or resources. It
contains a unique identifier (a sequence of characters) that the access control system reads and verifies to authorize (or deny)

access to the resource (opening a door, a gate, etc.). The company informally specifies the general characteristics expected of the
access control system:

the system must be highly configurable, allowing the creation of standard profiles (employee, project manager, intern,

contractor, etc.) that can be used to quickly configure a badge, all through a user-friendly graphical interface
the system must offer the ability to save these profiles and make them persistent, so they can be reloaded into the system in
case of a shutdown and restart

the system must allow for the very rapid invalidation of a badge
the system must offer a complete graphical user interface to interact in all ways with the access control system

the system must offer a graphical interface for visually monitoring the activity of the various access points and resources on the
site. For example, it must be possible to view the resources on a floor of a building, as well as access to those resources in real
time

the system must maintain daily reports on all accesses (granted and denied access attempts) and record all relevant information
(badge ID, resource ID, badge holder name, date, time of access, etc.) for each of them
the daily reports (a.k.a. logs) must be easily accessible through a graphical user interface that allows for relevant searching of

information (for example, searching for all accesses to a given resource within a given time period)
the system must be flexible and scalable, allowing for the future addition of new resources (such as electric scooters available on

site for employees to move quickly between buildings)

Regarding resource access, the company requires a high level of configuration and control. Access conditions to a resource depend
on a combination of several factors, including:

the user: this is the primary criterion. A user is generally associated with a specific profile that defines their access rights
the date: access rules for the resource may depend on the date (year, month, day, hour, minute). For example, a door may only
be able to open during office hours

the number of accesses: some resources may have a limited number of accesses (per day, per week, per month). For example,
beverage dispensers provided free of charge to staff are only accessible no more than N times per day and per person

precedence: the access control system takes into account certain precedence in the use of a badge. For example, a badge cannot
open a door inside a given building if that same badge has not previously opened (within a given timeframe) an access door to

that building (this mean a person would have entered a building without using a badge, which is prohibited)

The access rights definition system must be highly flexible and configurable, as BigComp can add new criteria at any time. Notice
that the access conditions appearing in red are optional, and must implemented as a bonus (e.g. you must focus first on the

essential features of your prototype).

Simulation

The application requested by BigComp includes a "physical" part (the badge readers and their connection to a network, and the
resources they control) and a purely software part (the part that will process access requests, view them, record them, etc.). To

participate in the tender, you must therefore develop a complete prototype of the application, which must include three parts:

a software component: this is the core of the application, handling request processing, monitoring, and database management,
all through a graphical user interface

a "physical" component that must simulate badges, badge readers, the resources they control, and the connection between the
badge reader and the access control system

an "events" component that must simulate the people using the system in real time

Badge Simulation

A badge is simulated by a Java object containing the information stored on the badge. This information is only readable by a badge
reader. A badge can be reprogrammed, but it is only re-programmable by a badge reader. For security reasons, the information

stored on a badge is limited to a code. This code identifies a unique user and is used by the access control system to decide
whether access to the resource is authorized. The system has the ability to reconfigure a badge, that is, to modify the information
stored on it. A badge has an expiration date, and once that date has passed, it no longer grants access to any resources. The system

allows to update a badge and set a new expiration date. Notice that, for security reason, the expiration date (or any other
information) is not stored on the badge.

Badge Reader Simulation

A badge reader is simulated by a Java object that can read the information (the code) stored on a badge and transmit it over a
network. A badge reader is associated with a resource (for example, a door) and can make the resource accessible or not (for
example, by opening the door). When a user swipes his badge on a badge reader, a message appears on the badger reader (like

"access granted", "access denied", etc.). A badge reader can also modify the information stored on a badge (the code). This
capability enhances system security: the codes of all badges can be changed periodically to prevent any fraudulent use of a stolen

or copied badge. This process should be automated: when it's time to update its code, any time the badge is swiped on a badge
reader, a suitable message should be displayed (like "badge must be updated"). The user has then a limited period of time to
update it. If the badge is not updated within that period, the badge becomes non functional, and any swipe on any badge reader

will result on an access deny with a suitable message (like "badge not valid"). To update the code on a badge, the user must hold
the badge up to the badge reader (and not swipe it) during the time it is upgraded. This means your badge reader object supports
the two actions:

swipe a badge
update a badge

In case it is not the time to update the bade, holding it up to the badge reader does not produce any effect.

Resource Simulation

A resource is a Java object whose attributes describe the resource's characteristics. For example, a resource might be a door, and its
attributes include its (unique) identifier, its physical location on the site (building, floor, etc.) and its state. A resource can have two

states:

controlled state: the user must swipe their badge on the reader, and if they have the appropriate access rights, the resource
becomes available (for example, the door opens).

uncontrolled state: the resource is available (or not) without verification (for example, the door is always open or always closed).
In this case, the badge has no effect.

It must be possible to change the state of one or more resources. For example, the application should allow, with a single click
(from the control interface), to set the state of a number of doors (selected in advance) to "uncontrolled" to facilitate building
evacuation in case of fire. This feature can be implemented using groups of resources (see the section Handling profiles).

Events Simulation

To ensure your prototype is convincing, you must simulate the use of your application in a real-world situation. To do this, you must
simulate the activity of (several) people with badges using the system. You must be able to define users and simulate their activity
(using their badge to access resources) consistently. For example, a simulated user should perform actions that are consistent in

time and space (entering through the main entrance first, then entering a building, and finally going to an office within that
building). To demonstrate the possibility of date-based access restrictions, you must be able to modify the current (absolute) time

to test different scenarios. For example, if access to certain resources is not permitted on Sundays, you must be able to set the
current date to a new date corresponding to a Sunday to verify that access is indeed prohibited. Your events simulation must be

scalable: your system should work with a realistic number of events, something like 300 badges (users) and 400 badge readers
(resources).

Handling an Access Request

The access control system architecture can be summarized by the following figure:

As mentioned above, a resource can be in a controlled or uncontrolled state. A resource in uncontrolled state is immediately
available and renders the badge reader inactive (e.g., an uncontrolled door does not use the badge reader to open). The complete
processing of an access request to a controlled resource is detailed here:

a user wishing to access the resource (for example, a door) swipes their badge in front of the resource's badge reader.
the badge reader reads the code on the badge and generates a request consisting of:

the code on the badge: this code uniquely identifies the badge owner.

the badge reader's code: this code uniquely identifies both the badge reader and the resource to which it is associated.

this request is sent to a router, which in turn forwards it to the control system. Throughout this process, the badge reader is not

active (e.g. any badge swipe has no effect)
the control system processes the request: the request is faced with various filters that depend on the user (via their code).
if access is authorized, the control system sends a message back to the router containing:

the badge reader code
a special value indicating that access is authorized.
upon receiving this message, the router forwards it to the correct badge reader. Upon receiving the message, the reader

grants access to the resource (for example, opens the door). After a predefined (short) period, the resource becomes
unavailable again (the door closes).

if access is not authorized, the control system sends a message back to the router containing:

the badge reader code
a special value indicating that access is not authorized.

upon receiving this message, the router forwards it to the correct badge reader. Upon receiving the message, the system
displays an alert indicating that access to the resource is denied.

at the end, the badge reader becomes active again (and therefore badges can be swiped again).

To closely mimic the operation of a physical resource, you can use virtual threads to simulate the resource's operation time. For
example, opening and closing a door takes a few seconds during which the badge reader controlling the door is inactive.

Concerning the connections between the various components, you don't have to simulate them by implementing actual
connections between different Java processes. For example, the router can be just a part of the main core and you don't have to
make it a remote component. The connections between the badge readers and the router can be implemented using

the PropertyChangeListener like we did in the lab 8, but you are free to use another implementation.

Checking access

When a user wishes to access to a resource, an access request is sent to the core of the system, the access request processor (ARP
in short). The response time of the ARP must be as short as possible to grant or deny the access in real (and short) time. Therefore,

the access rights information must be loaded in the live memory and the ARP should not require any access to the database to
perform the checking of the access request. This implies that at startup, the system must upload the access rights information

described through profiles (see the next section) stored in files. These information must be organized into the suitable data
structure to optimize the matching of the access request. This data structure must combine both  running time and memory usage
efficiency. For example, a two-dimensional matrix with badge IDs as rows and badge reader IDs as columns (or vice-versa) may not

be optimal in terms of memory usage. 

Handling profiles

The company BigComp requires that the application provides a way to define profiles. A profile defines the access rights for a user.
Each user is assigned one or more profiles. The resources controlled by the access control system are organized in groups of

different security levels. For example, the main gates to enter the company domain are in a group of low security level (e.g. any
authorized user should at least be allowed to enter the domain). On the opposite, the doors to access the computing center are in
a group of high security level. An access right is a pair ( group, time filter ) which defines the time the resources from the group are

accessible. A profile is a list of access rights. It must be possible to define the time when access is allowed in several ways:

by listing a series of year, months, days of the month, days of the week or hours

by an interval of year, months, days of the month, days of the week or hours
with the opposite of the previous ones
with any combination of the above

Here are some examples of possible time filters:

2025. July,August. Monday-Friday. 8:00-12:00,14:00-17:00 : using this time filter, the resource is accessible, for the year 2025, in
July and August, Monday to Friday, from 8:00 to 12:00, and from 14:00 to 17:00

2026. EXCEPT June, July, August. EXCEPT Sunday. ALL : using this time filter, the resource is accessible, for the year 2026, each
month except June, July and August, all week days except Sunday, at all time

ALL. ALL. Monday-Friday. EXCEPT 12:00-14:00 : using this time filter, the resource is accessible any year, any month, from Monday
to Friday, any time except from 12:00 to 14:00
2026.January,March,May. Monday,Wednesday,Friday. 16:00-18:00 : using this time filter, the resource is accessible in 2026, in

January, March or May, on Monday, Wednesday or Friday, between 16:00 and 18:00

You can create your own time filters, and you need to find the optimal way to implement them in Java so that matching with a
date is as efficient as possible. To make them persistent, the profiles must be stored in files, which requires that also the groups

must be stored in files. You have to define a syntax for:

group files: a group file is storing some resources. You may store in the file all the relevant information about a resource (name

of the resource, location, ID of the resource, ID of the badge reader controlling the resource). The name of the file should match
the name of the group it is storing.
profile files: a profile file contains a list of pairs  ( group, time filter ). You then have to design a syntax to encode time filter, and

you can get inspiration from the above examples of time filters.

A group can be very small or quite large. For example, a permanent employee may be authorized to access his office at all time,
and in that case would have the profile made of:

a group containing only the door (the resource) of his office
the time filter ALL.ALL.ALL.ALL

When deciding about the file format to store profiles, remember that the system will have to upload those profiles from their
file representation to the live memory. So you should design first the Java implementation of how the profiles (e.g. the groups
and the time filters) are going to be used in memory, and then decide about their string representation in files. A standard solution

is to use XML or JSON, but you can use your own text representation. Finally, although it would be expected to be able to create
full profiles from a graphical user interface, you may skip this part and and only provide the part to create groups of resources.

The log system

All access requests sent by badge readers must be recorded by the logging system. It should be possible to search the logged data

using dynamic filters that the user can select through an appropriate graphical interface. To make it more convenient and more
flexible, the logging system will store the access requests is CSV format. For example, a logged (granted) access request could look

like:

2025,Dec,24,Wed,14:36:49,BX76Z541,BR59KA87,R7U39PL2,83746028,John:Doe,GRANTED

where:

the values 2025,Dec,24,Wed,14:36:49 store the date and time of the access request
the value  BX76Z541 is the badge code

the value BR59KA87 is the badge reader code
the value R7U39PL2 is the identifier of the resource controlled by the badge reader
the value 83746028 is the identifier of the owner of the badge

the value John:Doe is the first name and last name of the owner of the badge
the value GRANTED indicates that the access was granted (DENIED if the access was denied)

To facilitate their searching, the log (CVS) files, could be stored in a structured way:

one log (CSV) file per day
all the log files for a given month in the same folder (one folder per month)

all the month folders for a given year in the same folder (one folder per year)

To be able to demonstrate your system's ability to search through logs, you need to artificially create several log files for different

days and different months.

The User Interface

The access control system must provide a graphical user interface (GUI) for configuring and monitoring the system. In
particular, this interface must allow users to:

register or delete a new user: the system must support different types of users (permanent employees, contractors, interns,
visitors, etc.)

define, modify, delete, save or restore user profiles, allowing for quick and easy assignment of access permissions to users: for
each user, the profile defining their access rights can be modified
view daily reports: the interface must offer a search function with filters to select entries in the daily reports based on various

criteria
visualize all or part of the site and show access attempts in real time: the application must allow users to visualize parts of the
physical environment (for example, the site plan or a specific floor of a building) and display access attempts to different

resources in real time

For site visualization, since you are developing a prototype, you can limit yourself to two visualization examples: a general site plan

and a specific floor of a particular building. You can optionally use the following image to visualize the site:

You can upgrade this image, for example by adding names on building, and by adding gates at the entrance of the site. The
following image can be used to visualize a building floor:

The access control system must visualize attempts to access resources (doors, elevators, etc.) by displaying, for example, a flashing
green dot at the location of the badge reader when the request is accepted, or a flashing red dot when the request is denied :

The database

The access control system must handle a database to store various information, including:

the users of the system: the attributes of a user include the gender, the first and last names, the ID number, a reference (foreign
key) to his badge

the badges: the attributes of a badge include the ID of the badge, a reference (foreign key) to its owner, the date of creation, the
expiration date, the date of the last update
the resources controlled by the system: the attributes of a resource include the ID of the resource, a reference (foreign key) to its

badge reader, the name of the resource, its location, the state of the resource (CONTROLLED or UNCONTROLLED)
the badge readers: the attributes of a badge reader include the ID of the badge reader, a reference (foreign key) to its resource
the groups of resources: the attributes of a group of resources include the name of the group (primary key), some kind of

security level (like an integer), a reference to the file path defining the group

the profiles: the attributes of a profile include the name of the profile (primary key), a reference to the file path defining the
profile

Besides those tables, you need to include some junction tables, for example between badges and profiles: a badge must be linked
to multiple profiles, and a profile can be one profile of multiple badges. You may think about more information to store and more

attributes than the ones listed before.

Supporting files

The supporting files are:

site-layout.png: this is the image of the company domain

office-layout.png: this is the image of a floor of a building

You may use other images in your project.

Last modified: Thursday, 25 December 2025, 12:20 PM

◄ Project how-to

Jump to...

Step 1 upload ►

全面贯彻党的教育方针，恪守兴学强国的宗旨，弘扬严谨治学的校风，秉承爱国奉献的传统，把立德树人作为研究生教育的根本任务。

Info

天津大学

天津大学研究生院

Copyright © 2026 - Graduate School of Tianjin University

平台相关

使用入门

申请创建课程
支持帮助
教师手册

